Here’s my recipe for banana bread.  I’ve written some notes at the bottom, but let’s start with the recipe itself.


Estimated Time Investment

    10 minutes to prepare
    50 minutes to bake

Ingredients

    Four large bananas, very ripe (mine are usually frozen first, which makes them very easy to mush up)
    150 grams white sugar
    1 large egg
    6 grams baking powder
    6 grams baking soda
    1/2 gram salt, or to taste
    180 grams of flour
    75 grams of butter, melted and slightly cooled (I use salted butter, because life is short)

Step 1

    Preheat your oven to 350f
    Prepare a loaf pan by first liberally oiling the inside, and then adding a strip of parchment paper to aid in lifting out the finished loaf
    I said oil the pan. Not butter. Butter is going to burn, I promise. 
    Use a neutral oil. I use Pam, because it’s convenient
    Wrap your soaked cake strip around the outside of the pan, if you’re using one (see notes at the bottom)
    Set the prepared pan aside

Step 2

    In a LARGE bowl, mash the bananas to a level of homogeneity that works for you
    Add the sugar
    Add the egg
    Mix these first three ingredients until thoroughly combined

Step 3

    Melt the butter
    Let the butter cool until it is less than 165 degrees f, as this is the temperature at which egg cooks
    When it has cooled, mix it into the banana/sugar/egg mixture

Step 4

    In a separate bowl, sift in the flour
    Sift in the baking powder
    Sift in the baking soda
    Add the salt
    Give it all a good stir

Step 5

    Add the dry ingredients to the bowl of wet ingredients
    Stir until no lumps of flour remain
    SCRAPE THE SIDES AND BOTTOM OF THE BOWL
    Stir in the flour that was hiding at the bottom
    Gently fold a cup or so of whatever add-ins you like, such as chocolate chips

Step 6

    Bake until the loaf reaches 200f inside
    Let it cool in the pan for a few minutes
    Use the parchment paper to lift it out onto a cooling rack
    Let it cool for at least 20 minutes
    Consume it

Notes

Important:  I get my best results by far, by using a cake strip around the loaf pan when baking this.  This helps the outside to not overcook, before the inside is finished.  Mine was a six pack of various sizes that came from Amazon. 

As noted, I’m not fussy about salted or unsalted butter. Adjust the salt to your preferences.
 

This is a depression-era recipe, which is why it’s so stingy with the eggs and butter.  In spite of that, it works very well. 

For the same reason, I always make this recipe by hand, instead of with a stand mixer.  It doesn’t necessitate any power tools.

The original recipe used volumetric measurements, but so help me God I refuse to perpetuate such an unserious method of measurement.

